# **The RDFitness Webpage**

## **Site Overview**
RDFitness is your go-to destination for achieving fitness goals, offering a comprehensive range of services and state-of-the-art facilities. The website features a welcoming Home page that instantly gives you the information you need about how the gym started with the "About Us" section and the equipment that we provide with the "Equipment" section. As you go down the page you see other various bits of information like the personal trainers that the gym provide and the different classes that we run. As you navigate to other pages we have a gallery page that is full of photos of the gym so you have a rough idea what you can expect and a sign-up page where you can enter your details and sign-up.

![Am I responsive screenshot](assets/images/Am-i-responsive.png)

Table of contents:

Planning stage

Target Audiences

User Stories

Site Aims

How Is This Will Be Achieved:

Wireframes

Color Scheme

Current Features Common to all pages

Header Element:

Title

Logos

Navigation Bar

Hero Images:

About Page:

Hero-Image

Quote

Teachings page:

Hero-Image

Quote

Community page:

Hero-Image

Quote

Contact and Form-Feedback pages:

Hero-Image

Quote

Anchor Tags Within all Pages Main Content

Footer

Typography

Individual Page Content features

About Page Content

Teachings Page Content

Community Page Content

Contact Page Content

Form Feedback Page Content

Future-Enhancements

Testing Phase

Deployment

Credits

Honorable mentions

General reference

Content

Media

Planning stage

Target Audiences:

Users who would like to start working out.

Users who have heard of RDFitness but would like to get some more
information on it.

Users who have never heard of RDFitness.

User Stories:

As a user, I want to see the subject matter of the page.

As a user, I want to navigate the page to find what I require quickly
and easily.

As a user, I want to leave feeling as I know more about the gym when
leaving each page than when I arrived at the site.

As a user, I was to be able to navigate my way to free resources easily.

As a user, I want to be able to reach out and ask for more information.

Site Aims:

To provide users knowledge about RDFitness and what we provide.

To educate the user on the services we provided.

Provide the user with the information required to check where we are
located.

To offer the user a way to contact the staff for further information and
a discussion.

How Is This Will Be Achieved:

The home page provides the user with a summary of our background and our
equipment.

The site will provide multiple free resources such as:

A gallery of pictures taken directly from the gym.

An option to sign up for a consultation meeting.

The site will provide information on days open and hours.

Wireframes:

To organize my thoughts and prevent scope creep, I created wireframes
for this project. Below are links to each of the mobile and desktop
versions of the four intended pages.

Mobile Wireframes:

Homepage (About)

Teachings page

Community page

Contact page

Desktop wireframes:

Homepage (About)

Teachings page

Community page

Contact page

There was some deviation from the original wireframes to improve the
User Experience (UX). Such variations include: -

The inclusion of a hero image and quote on each page to improve
uniformity across all pages.

I used images on the teaching page to break up the text.

Headings and content placement to allow for the flow of information to
be relevant.

A second logo was added to the header on larger screens to add symmetry
and make the design more appealing to the eye.

The two boxes in the footer were initially intended to be the images for
the ebook downloads used in the final design. I abandoned this idea not
to increase the footer height on mobile devices and improve the flow of
information as the user progressed through the pages.

Color Scheme:

When deciding the color scheme, I wanted to go with something that gave
a dark appearance to the website but also had bits of almost light with
the grey colors. For this reason, I selected a range of blue\'s and
grey\'s and used the following website to decide on the colours
<https://coolors.co/>. Using this grid allowed me to ensure all text
remained visible and the site was accessible to all.

(photo)

Current Features Common to all pages

Header Element

The header element sticks to the top of the page as the user scrolls up
and down so you can always navigate to a different page with the option
at the top right of the page. The header itself contains the following
features:

Title:

(photo)

The title serves to state the name of the website/company.

It also serves as a navigation link to the top of the home page called
\"home\" as per the well-established convention expected by the user.

Navigation Bar:

The navigation bar appears on all five pages (including the form
feedback page).

It contains links to the home, gallery and sign up page to allow easy
navigation around the website.

The below image shows the navigation bar.

(photo)

Hero Images

I have included a hero image on each page to make the site uniform
across all pages.

Each image has text over it relaying information to the user.

Home Page:

Hero-Image:

The hero image is a picture of the inside of the gym in black and white
so the text over it stands out, you can see in the image a squat rack in
the background with a bench under it and many dumbbells on the dumbbell
rack.

(photo)

Gallery page:

The gallery page does not have a hero image because the purpose of the
page is for users to see all the different photos we have from inside of
the gym.

(photo)

Sign-up page:

This image is taken from someone over a dumbell showing more of the gyms
equipment.

(photo)

Anchor Tags Within all Pages Main Content

All anchor tags in the page\'s main content were left with the underline
decoration to make it clear to the user that I had embedded a hyperlink.

I changed the color to black to match the surrounding text, meaning the
anchor tag did not look out of place or lower the contrast score.

Have a hover-over effect that turns the Hyperlink a darker color from
the gold gradient used throughout the page.

Have the cursor set to a pointer. A Pointer is a browser default
setting; however, I noted it did not default for buttons. I added the
cursor: pointer rule to the styles.css for the form submit button, and I
decide to create a separate rule for a:hover just in case the browser
provider ever changed the browser default.\
\
NEED TO DO

Footer

The footer includes direct links to all the RDFitness social media
accounts with the use of icons. These icons were imported from font
awesome.

I also included details like opening times and the location of the gym
in the Footer of my page.

(photo)

Typography

Throughout the page, there is one primary font used:

Montserrat - I used this for everything because it is a very easy to
read font and feels

like it conveys a poweful look which goes nicely with the style of the
RDFitness page.

Sans-serif - I used this as a fallback font.

All fonts were sourced from Google fonts, as stated in the credits.

Individual Page Content features

Home Page Content:

This page starts off by giving a brief description of how the gym
started and the stuff we provide. Then its a brief description on the
equipment we have accessible to anyone in the gym.

Then it leads into descriptive explanations on what our personal
trainers provide to all their clients.

Last but not least we have a table to show all of our weekly classes
that we run.

Gallery Page Content:

The gallery page has multiple different pictures from within the gym
showing all the tools and equipment we provide, how big the gym is and
the aesthetic of the gym.

Sign-up Page Content:

The sign-up page allows user to sign up to the gym and book a time to go
to the gym and talk to one of our staff members about everything we
provide, what the user is interested in and what we can do to accomodate
his goals.

The user is asked to input their First and Last name so we can identify
them when they come to the gym, their Email Address so we can contact
them and ask when they are available to come to the gym. They are then
asked to pick one of 3 options, Cardio, Weight Lifting or Calisthenics.
This is just so we can get a rough understanding of what their goals
are.

They then have a submit button with the text of \"Lets Go!\". I thought
having the text for the submit button being something different will
motivate users more to get started and go and smash it.

Future-Enhancements:

The future intention of the site would be to serve as a website
specifically for RDFitness that has every single detail someone could
ever ask for when they are looking at our gym as one they would like to
join.

At first, the purpose would remain to educate and inform users on what
we provide and what they can expect from our gym. There would be
additional content I could add as interest grew. Such things would be:

-Times/dates/venues for general Meetups to get to chat with the
different members of the gym community

-Times/dates/venues for different sport events, like running for
charities, charity football matches etc.

I would also make the contact form fully functional with a post request
and have a database to collect all the neccessary information we need
from the user.

Testing Phase:

Deployment

I deployed the page on GitHub pages via the following procedure: -

From the project\'s repository, go to the Settings tab.

From the left-hand menu, select the Pages tab.

Under the Source section, select the Main branch from the drop-down menu
and click Save.

A message will be displayed to indicate a successful deployment to
GitHub pages and provide the live link.

You can find the live site via the following URL - RDFitness

Credits

Honorable mentions

This project could not have happened without the support of the
following people listed in no particular order:

Richard Wells - Code Institute Mentor who has gone above and beyond what
was expected of him to help me get this far in the course.

My family - They have motivated me and pushed me to keep going and
complete my project and course work.

General reference:

The project was influenced by the Code Institutes code along project
called Love running. Whilst I have tried to deviate as much as possible
there may be some similarities in the code.

Content:

All content was written by myself but with the help from some of the
Love Running code.

Icons in the footer were taken from Font Awesome.

All fonts imported from - Google Fonts

Media:

I got most of my images from <https://www.pexels.com/search/gym/>

There was some photos that i got from searching \"gym\" or \"gym
photos\" in google.
